pdfTeX
======

README for version 3.1415926-1.40.11
====================================

This directory contains the version 1.40.11 of pdfTeX, an extended version
of eTeX that can create PDF directly from TeX source files and enhance the
result of TeX typesetting with the help of PDF. When PDF output is not
selected, pdfTeX produces normal DVI output, otherwise it produces PDF
output that looks identical to the DVI output. An important aspect of this
project is to investigate alternative justification algorithms, optionally
making use of multiple master fonts.

pdfTeX is based on the original eTeX sources and Web2c, and has been
successfully compiled on Unix, Win32 and DOS systems. It is no longer
under active development and only bug fixes are to be expected; it produces
reasonable PDF code.

See the file NEWS for changes to the program.

Documentation about pdfTeX can be found at http://www.pdftex.org

There is also a mailing list on pdfTeX; go to
http://tug.org/mailman/listinfo/pdftex for more information about it. Its
searchable archive can be found at http://tug.org/pipermail/pdftex/
Please read http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html before
asking any questions on the pdfTeX mailing list.

A mailing list for the developement of pdfTeX can be found at
http://www.ntg.nl/mailman/listinfo/ntg-pdftex


LEGAL ISSUES
============

pdfTeX is copyright 1996-2014 Han The Thanh, <thanh@pdftex.org>

pdfTeX is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

pdfTeX is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

pdfTeX uses code from TeX; for these parts the original copyright by Don
Knuth applies. See the source files for details.

pdfeTeX uses code from eTeX; for these parts the original copyright by
Peter Breitenlohner applies. See the source files for details.


WHAT TO DO IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE FOUND A BUG IN pdfTeX
========================================================

Please read http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html and
follow the guidelines there. Then go to the sarovar site of pdfTeX
(http://sarovar.org/projects/pdftex/) and submit your bug report there.
Here you can also report feature requests or patches.


CONTRIBUTORS
============

Peter Breitenlohner, Ricardo Sanchez Carmenes, Otfried Cheong, Thomas
Esser, Hans Hagen, Hartmut Henkel, Taco Hoekwater, Pawel Jackowski, Pavel
Janik, Tom Kacvinsky, Akira Kakuto, Reinhard Kotucha, Derek B. Noonburg,
Heiko Oberdiek, Jiri Osoba, Fabrice Popineau, Sebastian Rahtz, Bernd
Raichle, Tomas Rokicki, Leonard Rosenthol, Martin Schröder, Petr Sojka,
Ralf Utermann, Olaf Weber, Jiri Zlatuska.

Some companies have supported the developement of pdfTeX: Adobe Systems
Inc., ArtCom GmbH, Pragma ADE, QuinScape GmbH.

pdfTeX is built on top of TeX, written by Donald Knuth cum suis (Liang and
so), and eTeX, written by Peter Breitenlohner cum suis; part of the
paragraph optimization is inspired by the work of Hermann Zapf.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please send bug reports, offers of help, etc. to  pdftex@tug.org
