
AUTHORS OF XINDY
================

The xindy base system (CLISP plugins and kernel) was written by Roger
Kehr, under supervision of Joachim Schrod as a student project in
1995. It used an architectural design from Joachim that was prototyped
in his research work on International Makeindex and STIL (SGML
Transformations In Lisp). Roger continued to work on xindy until 2000,
but is not involved in xindy development any more. In these years he
especially designed and realized the current sort-rules framework.

Having been involved as the project's supervisor from the start,
Joachim Schrod is xindy's lead maintainer since 2000. Together with
Christine Detig, he wrote the LaTeX Companion (2nd ed.) chapter on
indexing where xindy is presented. As part of that work, he designed
and realized user commands and xindy base modules. Ordrules, the basic
rule evaluation facility, is also his work. In 2009, he moved xindy to
a pure Lisp implementation, making compilation much easier and the
overall system much more portable.
    Joachim also creates the `official' releases, eventually, after
some time, well, after a long time.

Thomas Henlich wrote the make-rules package that generates xindy
sort-rules for many languages, with special support for LaTeX Internal
Character Representations (the markup that appears in *.idx files).
Martin Vermeer contributed many improvements to this package.

Gour took over the herculian task to create a source distribution from
the shattered source parts, i.e., this current distribution form that
uses autoconf/automake and can be installed with the canonical
"./configure ; make ; make install" procedure. He also maintains the
Gentoo ebuild package of xindy.

Jörg Sommer chimed in and improved Gour's installation process by
enabling to use an already installed CLISP. He is also the Debian
package maintainer of xindy.

Vladimir Volovich changed xindy's compilation and install process to
fit into TeX-Live, first for TL 2008. He also created the first
Windows and Mac OS X versions that way. He is also the TeX Live
package maintainer of xindy.

Peter Breitenlohner improved xindy's autoconf mechanism for better
integration in TeX-Live 2010 and better maintainability.


Email addresses for the authors are best looked up in the mailing list
archives; for spam-protection reasons I don't want to list them here.
